I read [this](https://news.ontariotechu.ca/archives/2026/01/beyond-the-code-preparing-software-engineers-for-the-ai-era.php) article on using AI as a software engineer.

I feel like currently there is a lot of fear and outrage amongst students and new grads about AI taking over their jobs, but I feel like software engineers should be viewing AI as an assistive tool rather than a replacement to human skills. This article summarized that sentiment too, emphasising the fact that the inability to utilize AI is what's going to lead to job insecurity rather than getting replaced. The article says that AI cannot replace humans because of its limited capabilities making descicions, ensuring systems are safe and reliable, and taking responsibility. Instead AI is going to cut the time that software engineers have to spend debugging or doing basic, isolated coding tasks. The article is optimistic about the long-term outlook for software engineering careers, and believes that AI is vital for taking software applications to a higher level. The article also lists some important skills that developers should focus on and I found this important. It focuses on a strong coding fundamentals to let a developer reason about any system, even when AI is unreliable. It also says engineers should understand how software systems communicate, allowing developers to identify security risks, and optimize performance, scalability and reliability. The most important point I believe is the ability to communicate with fellow developers, and clients. It is very important to have the ability to align your team on the project and ensure everyone is on the same page, and all the requirements are being met and AI is often very weak at that. Overall I agree with the article as I also view AI as an assistive tool such as a calculator that helps you do math, rather than a brain that does the math for you. Just like a calculator in math, it is vital to learn how to use AI to grow as a software engineer.